---

category: [roots]
---

[quaker meetings and social anxiety ]

[loneliness/ social anxiety]
I always felt like an oil drop in a rushing river. Kids seemed to naturally combine in clusters. I seldom did, I stayed alone. I hated the walk over from 'Jenks' the social area, over to the quaker meeting house. 

I once had a fish tank. There were social fish, swimming through the center waters. Others, for example the 'oscar' fish, would stake out a territory in the bottom corner, in the outer edges of the arbitrarily set 3 inch white PVC. My PVC area tended to be just outside the main area, close to the windows. The light would shine off the snow-laden sills. And I would wait for 2:00. The minutes between 1:50 and 2:05 were, in retrospect, sad. At the time they were terrifying. I have never known such loneliness before or since. In writing this I feel an overwhelming sadness for this child not because it was so bad compared to the alternative. No, I am sad because he thinks this is all there is and expects it. This explains much to me about how I've been able to handle hardship. In forging my identity amidst such loneliness. 

On my own I've always been calm. In proximity to people - in which judgments occur - I always have been caught in a swirl. To put it in modern terms it's like the spinning pinball searching for a signal. And when I connect to a source it would send over damaging information packets with encrypted messages thematically grouped along a comparison operator [you're not as good as xyz, you lack this/that attribute, why can't you be like so-and-so, you'll never get girl x, ...].  

[solution to social anxeity ] 
The solution I (subconsciously) derived was a mantra "be outgoing and don't give a fuck". Interesting. 



[Meeting house - meditation on wood ] 
It wasn't that I hated anything about the quakers, the meeting house itself, or even the practice of sitting quietly. It's the people. Or more precisely, it's the mind-space that I inhabit when in proximity to these people. I don't like any of them. And I'm sure it's reciprocated. I feel unsure about myself - I have no roots. While we are physically more or less similar, the root structures differ. Class mates have last names extending back to the beginning of our country, their homes seem to be as old with placards on the front with house name + year built (some extending back to 17xx). 

I seem to float as froth atop the rushing waters of history. 

We arrive and I take a seat. The room itself 


It wasn't so much that 


quaker meetings and shop There was a quality to those old brick and
wooden houses in which I spent my youth that still stirs my soul. The basements
were made of masonry and retained the cold. It was the kids there that I never
quite unlocked. I was not the popular kid there. I actually wanted to hang out
in the corners. I was kind of like the fish I’d put in the tank that would not
occupy the center so much as the nooks and crannies.  My favorite time in high
school was wood shop. I was good. I had the confidence of a person that spent
much time and has done deep, individual thinking in that dimension. That’s a
true pleasure - that of knowing one is capable, standing on their own two legs.
The next step is to impose one’s will onto the situation.  What was it about
the wood? Quaker meeting house was a place that I had mixed feelings about. On
the one hand I hated quaker meeting, at least as it was practiced. It was
boring and the kids were for the most part awful. That said there’s a stage
element to the meeting in which the most gregarious kids tend to stand up and
talk. But I was in the middle, never fully confident enough to stand up and
share my thoughts. I always felt I that they were somehow inferior and not
worth sharing. Truth is that often I still feel this way. That’s a bad habit
from childhood that ingrained into my soul. I’m weeding it out with posts like
this.  But I liked the feeling of the wood and the way light hit those
crevasses. It felt like an embrace.

[solution to social anxeity ] 
The solution I (subconsciously) derived was a mantra "be outgoing and don't give a fuck". Interesting. 
