
Here's the punchline: cultivate micro-meanings.

-- setup the problem 

I'll explain.

Abraham Lincoln was massively depressed in his early 30's. Based on Doris Kearns Goodwin's excellent "leadership" <ref> it got so bad that his friends hid all the knives and sharp things in his room for fear he would kill himself. During this dark time he said something that stuck with me, to paraphrase from memory 
-- if you were to divide up my misery and spread it evenly among the people of earth there would not be a happy soul. I must die or be better. -- 

If those words don't punch you in the gut you have no soul. This is a man known for his ambition. But he suffered with some failures and personal insecurities along the way. Pushing through this suffering in such a state would have been like sailing a sturdy boat unskillfully in wind; conditions might have been right but knowledge would have been the rate-limiting step (it often is). He needed to shift course, go inside himself and take time to heal and shift course.

-- analogy to sailing 
As a New Englander I grew up sailing. There's a lesson I took from my long hours spent on the bay. You can have the best boat, great wind, smooth water and beautiful conditions. But if you don't know how to sail you'll go nowhere. Knowledge trumps the vessel. Be a verb, not a noun! But knowledge takes time to build, hence the importance of grit. It would be ridiculous to set one's sights on the target location (a buoy, a landmark on the horizon) and fail to consider the wind direction. Work with the wind to get to your destination. 

I've glossed over something important. If you're in a boat trying to get somewhere specific then the game is already defined. But defining the game is the most important part of all this!

-- solution  
When I think about applying this basic lesson my day-to-day (raising kids and working intense job) I often think of mental processes as the wind. I may be heading in the direction of my target but am I going fast and smooth? Or am I on some non-optimal path?

There's a few checks I use:
- The most important one is daily satisfaction. I may need to shift course, maybe jibe/tack - possibly going away from the target for a while - to better position myself to get there faster.

I'm reading this and shaking my head - I know this sounds trite. But I say this because of a personal characteristic that most folks superficially think is a strength. Grit. I overindex on this 'hot' trait. You'll never hear a parent say they wish their kid had less of it. While it's a net positive there is also a blind spot that I've noticed comes with it. I don't know when to quit. So my default state is to persevere until the end. I could list so many times when I did something dumb because I could 'grit and bear it because I'm not a quitter'. But often times the best thing is to save the grit and be intelligent instead.

One simple example would be to train for marathons instead of just showing up (yes I've done this). On a more serious note, how do you know when to leave a job instead of persevere? Or end a marriage? Or end a grudge and fix that relationship? or ...?

The antidote is to disproportionately weigh the present. One approach to consider is thinking about the future as driving a residue of micro-meanings. By micro I mean specifically that at the end of a day one could enumerate them in quick bullets. There are two parts to this. The first is changing course if needed, doing different things. But there's another another wya. Change your perspective. We don't always have the luxury of fixing external conditions. So the easier (but let's be honest, it's harder) method is changing our view point. Noting things to be grateful for is probably the best single thing a person could do to improve their quality of life. I see a major difference in my own.

So to summarize the formula:

Ambition tends toward future focus => discount present in favor of future outcomes. 



. This is all to say that the heuristic I'll use to check the future plans is what legacy did it leave TODAY? What does this mean?

If I'm miserable too many days in a row that's a good indication that something ain my approach is failing. There's good/positive kinds of failure. That's the kind where it's hard but you feel some sense of being on the rails / satisfaction. Am I learning something that's making this all get a bit smoother day by day?


I've been noticing how important the idea of daily meaning is. I'll take stock and ask if that the day's events were meaningful. The important piece of this is I'm zooming into the blades of grass and not focusing on the map itself. To put it another way I'm moving my focus to a lower level of abstraction. I'm looking directly at the data directly as a first step. The meaning and interpretation came later. Error lies in reversing this sequence (and it's the simplest error to make). 

What I find interesting about this is that it's a question of reality. Like what is real. Not sure about you but I tend to think of my suffering-oriented thoughts as real. They have more gravity. But that's delusion. So I'm focusing on the data. In a way I'm biasing the data by focusing on a very specific story to counteract the bias that seems fundamentally built-into my operating system. So this is more of an engineering problem than science problem. Use science to understand the system, then engineer it to produce a better output. 

On a tactical level I'll journal at the end of each day. Typically it takes the form of bullets to jog my memory. I've found that by continuously focusing on the good - there's always less of it to go around - I'm nudging my focus into a more positive place. In this way my purpose and meaning gets pushed down to the daily level instead of something "out there" that I'll one day achieve. This is a helpful tool. 

Meaning can be a simple interaction with a colleague that reinforced your belief that people are good. I find that happens a lot and I'm really grateful for what I have started to think of as micro-meanings.

